Welcome.
In this section we are going to be starting to build a menu system on top of the game from last section.
Many systems are key to multiplayer games so we're going to be starting off by creating and revising
some simple menu lay out for unreal and be going on throughout the section to flesh that out into a
fully functional menu system that allows you to execute all the commands that we created in the previous
section.
So let's dive in and see how to get started on this.
Okay here we stand with a brand new empty project ready to get started and stuck into understanding
how many systems work.
Now many systems on their own don't make very fun or exciting games so we are going to build it around
the game from the previous section so that we have something to play into.
Just an example to work with.
But the idea of this section is that the menu system is going to be completely decouple a ball or very
easily decouple a ball from the game itself.
So you'll be able to take this many system and plonk it in the other games that were going to build
and extend it further for their requirements.
The idea being that the menu system can be quite separate from a game in itself but as a starting point
we are going to be using last sections project.
So let's go over to get hub and get hold of that.
Here's the last section to go and download it.
I recommend going to clone or download and for this I don't want the whole get history I just want the
projects I'm just going to download the zip and should be safe with that.
Well go ahead.
Great.
Zip and download it for you.
And we're just going to take this and unzip it and take the contents.
Basically just the project and place it in our menu system when that's finished downloading.
That means that what we're going to do is build around that.
Create a directory structure inside there for the menu system that we can then extract out later into
other projects and I'll be showing you how that is possible how we can extract out a project in later
sections.
Let's go and see if our download has finished.
Yes it has.
I'm going to go ahead and open up that zip file.
And I am going to extract all.
Extracted my downloads.
That was reasonably quick and then I'll get my downloads and we've got that folder for puzzle platform
master.
We've got the read me we don't need but the project with it's get ignore and the you project all set
up there that we do need.
So I'm going to go ahead.
Copy that.
And go back over to our menu system folder and paste it in there.
Very straightforward stuff on it you could be following along with while I'm doing this.
And now because we've brought in a whole chunk of work here I would like to go ahead and well firstly
get it set of building so let's generate the visual studio project because then we can open the visual
studio project and it can start indexing while the project is building itself.
So first off I always do that I generate the visual studio project.
I open up the visual studio project so it can start indexing and then I open up the new project which
should hopefully ask me to build a go.
Nothing built so would you like to rebuild it.
Yes I would.
So I can go ahead and start the build process.
I can start the indexing process all of this can be going on while I show you that I am going to be
committing this so I'm going to go in to source tree for this.
I have had the initial project with the initial uncommitted changes and I'm just going to make a commit
for this.
So let's go ahead and hit the commit button at the top left on Windows.
And let's have a look at what it's going to stage.
This all looks reasonable.
The kids ignore that we copied across seems to be working correctly.
So I'm going to stage all of that.
We go.
And then I am going to write a reasonable commit message.
So import project from puzzle platforms is going to be my commit message.
And then I'm going to hit push changes immediately to origin mass Sturgis simplicity and I'm going to
go ahead and commit that.
Now it's going to take a little while because it needs to be pushing quite a few files but in the meantime
we have got unreel started loading up in the background.
So while it's pushing we can be doing the next step.
So the goal is to be able to create a menu system that allows us to do everything that we can currently
do only on the command line here in app projects so that's going to be to host and to join mainly So
we're going to need a menu that will replace our lobby as a main menu area that allows you to host a
level and take you to hosting and join and type in the address and hit join and display any errors if
any errors occur while trying to join.
So the first place to start with this is just to create a menu blueprint in the first place so let's
go ahead and do that.
I'm going to go into my content browser and up to the root of content.
And here I'm going to create a brand new top level directory for the menu system.
As I said I wanted to be completely separable.
So that's the way we're going to do it.
Add new new folder and let's give it a sensible name.
EF 2 to rename and we will call it menu system.
Without the space then like space.
Menu system.
And let's open up the menu system folder add new and we can go down to user interface and select the
widget blueprint.
Now remember with widget blueprints we like to use the prefix W. BP to differentiate it from standard
blue prints.
And I'm going to call this the main menu as the blue print name.
Let's go ahead and open up that blue print.
Now the moment we're doing this in blue print but do I am going to be using a lot more C++ as we go
on so no fear.
We'll be showing you how we can use blueprint for it's good out which is the visual layout stuff and
we can you C++ for what it's good at which is all the binding and Data Handling on the back end.
So I'll be doing that in later lectures.
But first off we're going to create the blueprint front end and then have something to put into the
back.
So hopefully that's all fairly familiar with you how to create a menu blueprint.
Let's go on and have a look at a revision of lay out in unreel lay out and real can be a little bit
complicated so let's think let's just revise that and get it fresh in our minds.
So we've got a pallet over in the left of our UI editor which gives us lots of components that we can
click and drag in to our canvas.
And on that canvas we can move them around are all around the place and in the left hand underneath
the palette we have a hierarchy.
So you can see that the canvas panel has below the border that we just dragged in and we can generally
nest items as they allow nesting so certain types of items will allow other widgets to be put inside
them and so on and so forth.
And that can affect later.
And we'll see more about advanced layout late in a later lecture.
But let's think about the very very simple case of lay out if I bring in a text box like this one ATEX
block and move it around what's actually going on in the property pane over to our right.
You can see that we've got position X and Y.
And as I move it that position is changing.
Now this is obviously great if I want to position things relative to that top left corner.
But what happens if I try and rescale my Cambers I've got a little scaling thing down at the bottom
right to enable that you may need to mess around with some of these buttons at the top.
At the top right at the bottom left.
I've got this little scaling buttonless and you can see it can be used to scale between something like
720 P or up to 10 80 or down or just some random resolution as well.
So what you can see is that when I am scaling like this my text block is eventually going to go off
to the side and it's certainly not staying in the middle the whole time.
And depending on the different layouts of scale that's certainly not staying in the middle.
So what if we did want that textbook to be centred towards the middle of my page and well to do that
we've got something called the anchor and that's this flower looking symbol in the top right is not
actually a flower it's actually got some Or basically its petals can be pulled out in this fashion.
As you can see to make a sort of percentage style box and I'll talk about that in a little while but
let's move it by the Centre first because what we can do with this anchor is if I expand the anchor
property in details.
You'll see we've got a minimum and a maximum at the moment are linked to each other but basically percentages
of this screen space.
So if I set them to point five.
And point five.
And then basically set all of them two point five.
Then what we've ended up with.
He is an anchor out there smack bang in the middle of the page.
Now what I can do is I can move my text block to be in a position relative to that anchor.
And when I recycled the screen it's going to stay at that position relative to the middle of the page
which is much better if we're trying to create a menu that is anchored to the middle of the page.
Hence the name anchor.
Simple right.
Okay.
So we've got that we've got how to anchor things to the centre of the page and that's quite important.
Now let's think a bit about these minimums a maximum.
What does that do.
So you can see that I can change the minimax by pulling out these petals you can pull out different
petals to experiment with and see how that changes the different of these four minimums and maximums.
But what does this actually mean.
Well you'll notice that when I actually pull that petal out so let me try it again.
We get a change in the properties in that panel so when it's all together we've got a position X and
Y and a size X and Y.
If I pull them out then we no longer have size X and Y instead we have those four properties replaced
by offset left offset top offset right and offset bottom.
So what this does now is it turns the size of our textbook also into a relative thing.
It's now a percentage based thing.
So if I pop my box to be somewhere in the middle like this and then I resize my text block to be about
any size just like this within within or without of this now expanded flower then when I reach size
what you'll see is that the scale of the text box itself is changing with the scale of the page.
So it makes the size relative as well as the position.
That's the general idea.
And these are the basic tenants of lay out when we are in unreel.
So now it's your turn to go ahead and create your own basic menu.
How are you going to do this.
Well it's going to have the following it should have a title for a start.
So a title of the pop top saying that what's the name of the game that this is the main menu.
Maybe a little bit of text a description.
But often you don't need that.
It's also going to have a host button to replicate that house command that we created and a join button
which isn't going to be exactly the join command because it's going to have to go on to another screen
to do more complicated stuff there.
But it's going to be a start.
So pause a video and have a go at creating this menu.
Okay welcome back.
So let's dive into making this menu.
First things first is text the text block is a useful place to start but I'm going to delete it because
we've been messing around with this lay out.
So I'm going to start with a new text block and I'm going to change the text in it so the text content
area of the details pain.
I'm going to give it a really mundane name like Main Menu for now and hit enter for that name to come
across.
Now let's see.
I'm going to resize that menu to be about the right size then I'm going to go to my appearance and change
it.
It's justification to be Centre aligned because I want my main menu text to be Centre aligned and then
I want to change the font size so under appearance and font we have the size as well as the font family
so you can choose a more elaborate font family if you want.
You can go and do that by I believe searching through the content browse we've got a few here in my
engine fonts just roboto Mostly Android sans some free fonts that are on my system.
But you can go ahead and get any fonts that you like from places like Daff font or any other.
Google's open source font products is a good one that will allow you to distribute them for free.
And so we can change the size that's what I was here for.
Sam's getting distracted again.
And let's bring the main menu up to a larger size make its box around its a similar size so that the
justification is working correctly.
I may be oversized But for now it seems to be okay.
Now my anchor position I'm going to go ahead and change that to being as we've done before.
Point five all around this point five five Tam point five enter.
And that's got an anchor smack bang in the middle which allows me to position my main menu somewhere
around the middle to not going to be too accurate with this.
There's going to be I'm going to be doing the lay out in a slightly different way later with some more
advanced lay out components case that's more or less in the centre and I can check that the layout is
going to work by rescaling.
This menu seems to work okay for quite a range of sizes which is good.
Next up I'm going to add in a host button so let's pull in our button.
Make it a sensible size.
And then we're gonna have to add some text.
Now you may or may not remember how adding text works it's fairly straightforward actually the way that
you and text is you pull in a text component onto your button and what you'll notice happens is that
that text component gets nested underneath the button as I said certain components have slots underneath
them that you can put on one or more other things inside them.
And the button is an example of that.
Now in white it's a little bit hard to read.
I'm going to change the appearance of the colour to be a black one and then I'm going to change the
text to host it.
Enter for that to happen with out the hash.
And I am going to change the size of the text to about a forty three so now I got a nice sizeable host
button that looks good and I'm going to change the anchor again.
This time is getting a little bit tedious as net.
But we're going to create the pain first and then we're going to learn how to fix that pain so I can
it is a bit of snappin going on so I can actually position it 2.5 quite easily.
Then I'm going to take this button and copy and paste it.
Which didn't really work.
So let's right click and copy and right click on the canvas which is what I want to paste it under and
paste there that makes it a little bit more clear to one real.
Where you wanting to copy paste because it doesn't know otherwise.
It's saying I can't put a button inside another button which is fair enough as I said you can sometimes
have only one thing underneath the other elements in this hierarchy.
So let's take that second button and stick it underneath the first and select its text again in the
hierarchy.
Go over to the details and change the text from host to join.
That looks fairly straight forward now and the anchor is in the correct place because I copied it from
the host button.
So now if I rescale.
If it will let me rescale indeed.
Then you see that all the buttons seem to be moving in the correct fashion so that's a job well done.
In my opinion we've created a very simple main menu will be sprucing it up through this section and
we will be making it much more functional than it currently is and make it actually do stuff in our
gamebook patch on the back.
A great start to the second section.